Changed STaaS docs (#2025)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Functionality/Databases/STaaS/STaaS.md

   ```xml
   <?xml version="1.0"?>
   <DataBases xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xmlns="http://www.skyline.be/config/db">
      <DataBase active="true" local="true" search="true" cloud="true" type="CloudStorage"/>
   </DataBases>
   ```

1. Restart DataMiner to begin using STaaS.

## Limitations

To **migrate existing data** to STaaS, the following limitations apply:

- If you migrate from a Cassandra database, logger tables cannot be migrated yet. Support for the migration of logger tables will be introduced in a future DataMiner version.
- Migration of an Elasticsearch database that is defined in [DBConfiguration.xml](xref:DBConfiguration_xml) instead of [DB.xml](xref:DB_xml) (e.g. because a setup with multiple Elasticsearch clusters is used) is not yet supported.
- Migration from a MySQL setup is not yet supported.

In addition, the following **other limitations** currently apply:

- [Jobs](xref:jobs), [Ticketing](xref:ticketing), and [API Deployment](xref:Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options#apideployment) data are not supported.

> - Indexing engine functionality such as search, suggestions, aliases, and aggregation are not supported.

Reviewer: Since this also uses the indexing engine, is SRM supported? If not, we'd better also mention this.

Author: Only search, suggestions, aliases, and aggregation are not supported. 
with the exception of the above, everything from Elastic works (SRM, DOM, etc... work)

- Outstanding performance, scalability, and redundancy

- Cost-effectiveness

- Safe and secure data

> [!TIP]
> If you have any questions or need support with the STaaS feature, contact <staas@dataminer.services>.

## Setting up STaaS

1. [Upgrade your DataMiner System](xref:Upgrading_a_DataMiner_Agent) to version 10.3.10 [CU1] or higher.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > We recommend always upgrading DataMiner to the latest available version to get the latest features and performance updates.

1. Make sure your DataMiner System is [connected to dataminer.services](xref:Connecting_your_DataMiner_System_to_the_cloud).

> 1. Retrieve your organization and coordination IDs:

Reviewer: What do you need these for? This isn't mentioned elsewhere in the procedure.

Author: since the registration should be handled by the TAM/Skyline representative, this can be remove

   1. [Open SLNetClientTest tool](xref:Opening_the_SLNetClientTest_tool).

   1. [Connect to your DMS with SLNetClientTest tool](xref:Connecting_to_a_DMA_with_the_SLNetClientTest_tool).

   1. Select *Advanced* > *CcaGateway* > *Get Global State*.

   1. Note down your organization and coordination IDs.

1. Make sure you have at least **DataMiner CloudGateway 2.8.0** installed on the system. See [Upgrading nodes to the latest DxM versions](xref:Managing_cloud-connected_nodes#upgrading-nodes-to-the-latest-dxm-versions).

1. Contact your Skyline representative or <staas@dataminer.services> to register you system to use STaaS.

> 1. Wait until the registration is completed.

Reviewer: How will users know it is completed? Will they receive an email?

1. **Optionally**, contact your Skyline representative or <staas@dataminer.services> to migrate your existing data to STaaS.

> 1. In the `C:\Skyline DataMiner` folder, open *DB.xml* and edit it to look like this:

Reviewer: What about other DMAs in the cluster? Do you need to edit DB.xml on all of them? Or do you need to force sync the changes from this DMA to the others?

Author: needs to be changed in all DMAs

- Migration from a MySQL setup is not yet supported.

In addition, the following **other limitations** currently apply:

- [Jobs](xref:jobs), [Ticketing](xref:ticketing), and [API Deployment](xref:Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options#apideployment) data are not supported.
- Indexing engine functionality such as search, suggestions, aliases, and aggregation are not supported.
- Direct queries from DataMiner Cube to the database are not supported.
- The [SLReset tool](xref:Factory_reset_tool) is not supported.
- [Exporting trend data](xref:Exporting_elements_services_etc_to_a_dmimport_file) to a .dmimport file is not supported.
- Proxy and DMZ setups are currently not supported.
- The [autoincrement](xref:Protocol.Params.Param.ArrayOptions.ColumnOption-type#autoincrement) tag on logger tables is not supported.
- DOM queries can be slower depending on the number of DOM records and the complexity of the query. This limitation will be removed in the near future.

## Troubleshooting

> [!NOTE]
> If you experience any issues during setup or while using Storage as a Service, and you cannot resolve these with the procedures below, contact <staas@dataminer.services>.

### Cloud connection lost

> Under normal circumstances, CloudGateway refreshes the cloud session automatically. However, if CloudGateway is down for longer than three days, for example because the server is down, the cloud session will become invalid. This will cause DataMiner startup to fail.

Reviewer: What is the most common symptom of this issue in the DataMiner logging? As users may search for that when troubleshooting, it would help if we add this.

Author: the user can see an exception in both SLDBConnection.txt or SLCloudStorage.txt saying that the token is expired

Reviewer: Do you know what this exception looks like exactly? I'd like to add this, because users will most likely search for that specific text when they encounter the issue.

Author: this is the exception:

```
2023/10/02 14:04:23.458|SLDBConnection|SLCloudStorage|INF|0|6|2023-10-02T14:04:23.442|FATAL|DataGateway.CloudStorage.CloudStorage|CloudSettings could not be retrieved from the cloud. Retrying in 00:00:05. Exception: SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Exceptions.CloudSettingsRepositoryException: Failed to do GetCloudAccessTokenRequest. Received the following error messages: { "message": "The Service Principal of this DMS is expired (3/14/2023 8:09:51 AM +00:00) but should soon be refreshed automatically." }
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.ExecuteBroker[T](Func`1 action, Func`2 getError, String message) in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 230
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.GetToken(String scope) in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 144
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.<GetAsync>d__4.MoveNext() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 57
--- End of stack trace from previous location where exception was thrown ---
   at System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw()
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter.HandleNonSuccessAndDebuggerNotification(Task task)
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter`1.GetResult()
   at SLCloudStorage.CloudStorageManager.<LoadSettingsAsync>d__62.MoveNext() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\CloudStorageManager.cs:line 355)
```

Author: also, this one can also occour when CloudGateway is not running:

`2023/10/02 14:05:33.981|SLDBConnection|SLCloudStorage|INF|0|6|2023-10-02T14:05:33.980|FATAL|DataGateway.CloudStorage.CloudStorage|CloudSettings could not be retrieved from the cloud. Retrying in 00:00:05. Exception: SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Exceptions.CloudSettingsRepositoryException: Exception while doing GetCcaGatewayConfigRequest. ---> System.AggregateException: One or more errors occurred. ---> DataMinerMessageBroker.API.Exceptions.SubscriptionException: No responders are available for the request. ---> NATS.Client.NATSNoRespondersException: No responders are available for the request.
   at System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw()
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter.HandleNonSuccessAndDebuggerNotification(Task task)
   at NATS.Client.Connection.<RequestAsyncImpl>d__147.MoveNext()
--- End of stack trace from previous location where exception was thrown ---
   at System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw()
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter.HandleNonSuccessAndDebuggerNotification(Task task)
   at DataMinerMessageBroker.API.Nats.NatsSession.<RequestAsync>d__50.MoveNext()
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   at DataMinerMessageBroker.API.Nats.NatsSession.<RequestAsync>d__50.MoveNext()
--- End of stack trace from previous location where exception was thrown ---
   at System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw()
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter.HandleNonSuccessAndDebuggerNotification(Task task)
   at DataMinerMessageBroker.API.MessageBroker.<RequestAsync>d__17.MoveNext()
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ThrowIfExceptional(Boolean includeTaskCanceledExceptions)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait(Int32 millisecondsTimeout, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   at System.Threading.Tasks.Task.Wait()
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.<GetApiEndpoint>b__6_0() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 117
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.ExecuteBroker[T](Func`1 action, Func`2 getError, String message) in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 216
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.ExecuteBroker[T](Func`1 action, Func`2 getError, String message) in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 220
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.GetApiEndpoint() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 113
   at SLCloudStorage.Repositories.Impl.HttpCloudSettingsRepository.<GetAsync>d__4.MoveNext() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\Repositories\Impl\HttpCloudSettingsRepository.cs:line 46
--- End of stack trace from previous location where exception was thrown ---
   at System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw()
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter.HandleNonSuccessAndDebuggerNotification(Task task)
   at System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TaskAwaiter`1.GetResult()
   at SLCloudStorage.CloudStorageManager.<LoadSettingsAsync>d__62.MoveNext() in C:\devcore3\server\SLDataGateway\SLCloudStorage\CloudStorageManager.cs:line 355)`

> To resolve this issue, use the following workaround:

Reviewer: Is it sufficient to do this for one DMA to get an entire DMS up and running again? Or do you need to do it for every DMA?

Author: the token only needs to be refreshed once, so doing it from one DMA is enough

  1. **Optional**: Migrate data to STaaS. To migrate your current data to STaaS please contact your Skyline representative to do so.
  1. Edit the DB.xml, present in the Skyline DataMiner root folder, to look like this:

      ```xml
      <?xml version="1.0"?>
      <DataBases xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xmlns="http://www.skyline.be/config/db">
        <DataBase active="true" local="true" search="true" cloud="true" type="CloudStorage"/>
      </DataBases>
      ```

  1. Restart your DMA and STaaS will be used.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Steps 4., 5. and 6. can only be done after registration is completed (Step 3.)

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you experience any issues during setup or while using Storage as a Service do not hesitate to contact the Cloud Ecosystem by sending an email to: staas@dataminer.services.

## Migration
Migration to STaaS from Cassandra Cluster or Cassandra Single Node (w/o Elastic) setups is supported for all datatypes with the exception of logger tables. 
Migration of logger tables will be supported in future versions. 
Migration from MySQL setups is not yet supported.

> [!NOTE]
>

> > Data stored in Cassandra and Elastic databases can only be migrated to STaaS if the databases are defined in the `DB.xml` configuration file.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this note is really necessary. If a database is not included in DB.xml, surely that means it's not part of the DataMiner storage setup, so you could only expect it to not be included in the migration? Or possibly you mean something like this?

```suggestion
> A migration to STaaS will only include the databases DataMiner uses for its main storage. Any other Cassandra or Elasticsearch databases, which are not included in [DB.xml](xref:DB_xml), will not be migrated.
```

Author: well, for Elastic at least, it can be defined in DBConfiguration_xml: https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Reference/Skyline_DataMiner_Folder/More_information_on_certain_files_and_folders/DBConfiguration_xml.html

and if the Elastic config is defined there and not it DB.xml, the migration of Elastic data will not work

Reviewer: Aha! Does that mean that it is in fact just setups with multiple Elasticsearch clusters that do not get migrated: https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Reference/Skyline_DataMiner_Folder/More_information_on_certain_files_and_folders/DBConfiguration_xml.html#configuring-multiple-elasticsearch-clusters?

Author: no, because data will not be migrated even if there is only 1 Elastic cluster, but it is defined in DBConfiguration.xml instead of DB.xml. 
there is already a story on our backlog to support this though

Reviewer: Could I rephrase this like this then?

```suggestion
> Migration of an Elasticsearch database that is defined in DBConfiguration.xml instead of DB.xml (e.g. because a setup with multiple Elasticsearch clusters is used) is not yet supported.
```

Author: yes, looks good to me
